Another thing we could animate is when we actually go to a product detail page. This transition certainly
isn't bad but there is a nice animation which you might know from some applications where this image
here, this book image for example doesn't really go away but instead, it's kept here,
it increases in size and floats into the position where it needs to be on the new screen.
This is called a hero animation and this kind of animation is built into Flutter or at least, it's very
simple to implement.
Now how does it work?
You go to your image which you want to use in that hero animation and you wrap it in a new widget and
that's the hero widget which is also built into Flutter.
The hero widget and that's important needs a tag,
this tag is then used on the new page which is loaded because the hero animation is always used between
two different pages, two different screens,
it's used on the new screen which is loaded to know which image on the old screen to float over so to
say, which image should be animated over into the new screen. It can be any tag you want, here
I'll use the product ID which I have available but in general, that can be any tag you want, it
should of course be unique
per image otherwise Flutter doesn't know which image to shift over.
Now of course, setting it up here is only one part,
you also need to go to the place where you're animating to, so hero is a widget that only makes sense
if you're switching between different screens.
The new screen we're animating to is the product detail screen and there,
I'm also outputting an image here
and therefore this now should also be wrapped into a widget.
So here, we also use the hero widget, the same widget and the same tag
and of course, the tag should now be equal,
so here it's the loadedProduct.id and that should be all, this is absolutely all. If you now restart
this and let this reload, if you now click on let's say the red shirt item here, you see this now is actually
faded over or animated over into the new route
and that's of course a really nice effect here.
So this is a fancy animation which as you see is extremely easy to add in Flutter apps with the hero
widget,
just a couple of lines of code and you've got this nice look which looks super complex and really nice
and gives the user a good idea of what changed on the screen
and it's that easy to implement.